The authors would like to thank Dr. Ivan D. Ivanov (Occupational and Workplace Health, WHO headquarter) for his professional comments to this article.
This research was supported by Lembaga Penelitian dan Pengabdian Masyarakat (LPPM) Kanjuruhan University. We thank our colleagues from Mathematics Education Department also Science and Technology Faculty of Kanjuruhan University who provided insight and expertise that greatly assisted the research, although they may not agree with all of the conclusions of this paper.
The authors would like to acknowledge the contribution of Caroline Whidden to the first draft of the Ethiopia situational assessment.
We acknowledge funding by the ERC Starting Grant VideoLearn (279401). We are grateful to Aravindh Mahendran for sharing with us the reconstructions achieved with the method of Mahendran and Vedaldi [19]. We thank Jost Tobias Springenberg for comments.
We gratefully acknowledge discussions and comments on the manuscript by our colleagues Sebastian  Lapuschkin, and Alexander Binder. This work was supported by the Brain Korea 21 Plus Program through the National Research Foundation of Korea; the Institute for Information & Communications Technology Promotion (IITP) grant funded by the Korea government [No. 2017-0-00451]; the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) [grant MU 987/17-1]; and the German Ministry for Education and Research as Berlin Big Data Center (BBDC) [01IS14013A]. This publication only reflects the authors views. Funding agencies are not liable for any use that may be made of the information contained herein.
We would like to thank Daniel Smilkov for helpful discussions. We thank Alexander Mordvintsev for providing tfzoo code. We also thank Ethan R Elenberg, David Alvarez Melis and an anonymous reviewer for helpful comments and discussions. We thank Alexander Mordvintsev, Chris Olah and Ludwig Schubert for generously allowing us to use their code for DeepDream. Thanks to Christopher for sharing early work on doing attribution to semantically meaningful channels. Work from Nicholas Carlini, on training linear classifiers for non-label concepts on logit-layer activations, was one of our motivations. Finally, we would like to thank Dr. Zahra Rastegar for evaluating diabetic retinopathy results, and provided relevant medical expertise.
This work is partially supported by the European Community's H2020 Program under the funding scheme "INFRAIA-1-2014-2015: Research Infrastructures", grant agreement 654024, SoBigData, http://www.sobigdata.eu.
Acknowledgments. This work was supported in part by NSF CNS-1717775.
The work was partially funded by DARPA XAI program FA8750-18-C0004, the National Science Foundation under Grants No. 1524817, the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab, and the Toyota Research Institute (TRI). The authors also wish to express their appreciation for Jonathan Frankle for sharing his insightful feedback on earlier versions of the manuscript.
Acknowledgments Anh Nguyen is supported by Amazon Research Credits, Auburn University, and donations from Adobe Systems Inc and Nvidia.
None
Umut Şimşekli's research is supported by the French government under management of Agence Nationale de la Recherche as part of the "Investissements d'avenir" program, reference ANR-19-P3IA-0001 (PRAIRIE 3IA Institute).
We would like to thank Jonas Müller for feedback on the draft, the proof, and typesetting; Patrick Esser for feedback on the proof and building an early model demo; Frederic Boesel for generating data and helpful discussions; Minguk Kang and Taesung Park for providing GigaGAN samples; Richard Vencu, Harry Saini, and Sami Kama for maintaining the compute infrastructure; Yara Wald for creative sampling support; and Vanessa Sauer for her general support.
None
We'd like to thank the millions of people involved in creating the data CLIP is trained on. We'd also like to thank Susan Zhang for her work on image conditional language models while at OpenAI, Ishaan Gulrajani for catching an error in the pseudocode, and Irene Solaiman, Miles Brundage, and Gillian Hadfield for their thoughtful feedback on the broader impacts section of the paper. We are also grateful to the Acceleration and Supercomputing teams at OpenAI for their critical work on software and hardware infrastructure this project used. Finally, we'd also like to thank the developers of the many software packages used throughout this project including, but not limited, to Numpy (Harris et al., 2020), SciPy (Virtanen et al., 2020), ftfy (Speer, 2019), Tensor-Flow (Abadi et al., 2016), PyTorch (Paszke et al., 2019), pandas (pandas development team, 2020), and scikit-learn (Pedregosa et al., 2011).
We thank Alex Nichol for reviewing the manuscript and providing valuable feedback, Chenlin Meng for providing stroke inputs needed in our stroke-guided image generation experiments, and the OpenAI Algorithms team.
The authors would like to thank Jermesha Smith and Meghan Ryan, LCPC, for helpful discussions about working with families during the pandemic, and Eduardo Gonzalez for assisting with the referencing of this manuscript.
We would like to thank Matthew Knight for reviewing the code release for this work, and Rewon Child, John Schulman, Heewoo Jun, and Prafulla Dhariwal for helpful early feedback on the paper. We would also like to thank Jong Wook Kim for writing the PyTorch package for the contrastive model described in Radford et al. (2019) that we used to rerank the samples from our model.
We would like to thank the following for their helpful comments: Oyvind Tafjord, Jan Leike, David Krueger, Alex Tamkin, Girish Sastry, and Henry Zhu. DH is supported by the NSF GRFP Fellowship and an Open Philanthropy Project Fellowship. This research was also supported by the NSF Frontier Award 1804794.
None
This research was conducted with funding from the Health Agency of Health South of Grenada, Spain, and was partially funded by the MTM2013-47929-P project from "Secretariat of State for Research, Development and Innovation, Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness", Spain.
None
We are indebted to Hillel Chiel for critical comments at a crucial stage of writing, as well as to Michael Eisen for providing most of the references on scholarly societies attacking modernization. We thank three anonymous reviewers for their helpful suggestions.
We extend our earnest appreciation to Chairman Mr. RPN Singh and Prof. Namrata Chhabra, Principal In-charge, Prof. Sushil Dawka, Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam Medical College, Mauritius, for providing us with immense support and guidance to conduct the research study effectively. We are also thankful to Dr. Brijesh Sathian, Scientist, Department of geriatrics and long-term care, Rumailah Hospital, Doha, Qatar, for generous help. We extend our thanks to those who participated in the research.
We thank the CoreWeave and Scaleway teams for technical support as we trained our models. We are grateful to NVIDIA for supporting us in integrating TensorRT-LLM and Triton and working alongside us to make a sparse mixture of experts compatible with TensorRT-LLM.
Acknowledgements We are grateful to Nal Kalchbrenner and Stephan Gouws for their fruitful comments, corrections and inspiration.
This work was funded by the European Union (Grant Agreement no. 101057321). Views and opinions expressed are however those of the author(s) only and do not necessarily reflect those of the European Union or the Health and Digital Executive Agency. Neither the European Union nor the granting authority can be held responsible for them. S.G. also reports grants from the European Union (Grant Agreement no. 101057099), the National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering (NIBIB) of the National Institutes of Health (Grant Agreement no. 3R01EB027650-03S1), and the Rock Ethics Institute at Penn State University.
We would like to thank Daoyu Zhang for sharing with us the findings of mutations in the E proteins in different sub-groups of β coronaviruses. We also thank all the anonymous scientists and other individuals, who have contributed in uncovering various facts associated with the origin of SARS-CoV-2.
